7-methylguanosine immunofluorescence reveals the heterogenous and context-dependent distribution of capped-mRNA within P-bodies 
Previous RNA-labeling FISH studies demonstrated that all P-bodies contain significant mRNA content10–13. However, the RNA-seq and FISH approaches used in these studies could not assess the m7G-cap status of detected mRNAs, which is critical for mRNA stability and efficient mRNA translation1. Therefore, we began interrogating an mRNA decapping model of P-bodies using an immunofluorescence-based approach to target the modified nucleotide m7G-cap structure on the 5’-end of mature mRNAs. The absence or accumulation of m7G signal would indicate whether individual P-bodies are conducting mRNA decapping or mRNA storage functions, respectively. Wild-type human U-2 OS cells under basal conditions were immunolabeled for DDX6 (P-bodies), G3BP1 (stress granules) and m7G. Strikingly, most P-bodies contained little to no m7G signal, revealing the surprising accumulation of uncapped-mRNAs within P-bodies (Fig. 1a). 
Sodium arsenite (NaAsO2) induces an oxidative stress response characterized by cytoplasmic condensation of mRNAs and an inhibition of mRNA translation29, resulting in the formation of stress granules and more P-bodies26,27. In addition to P-body and stress granule biogenesis, we observed an accumulation of m7G signal within P-bodies, which indicates a functional attenuation of mRNA decapping during stress (Fig. 1a, Extended Data Fig. 1a-d). Although stress granules and P-bodies share some compositional overlap, stress granules lack mRNA decay enzymes and are thought to sequester bulk mRNA until cells overcome stress26,27. Consistent with the mRNA sequestration model of stress granules, we observed a bright accumulation of m7G signal within stress granules (Figure 1c-d). Importantly, these data demonstrate the ability of m7G immunofluorescence to detect capped-mRNA within stress granules and capture dynamic, context-dependent changes in P-body-localized m7G signals (Fig. 1c-d). 
Next, we tested whether m7G signal accumulation within P-bodies was regulated by Dcp2-dependent mRNA decapping. Like yeast, human Dcp2 activity is dependent on interactions with Dcp1 paralogs6,7. Additionally, previous studies showed that yeast Dcp2-Dcp1 condensates require the addition of yeast Edc3 for mRNA decapping activation30. However, whether human Edc3 is important for mRNA decapping in situ is not known. Therefore, we sought to inhibit Dcp2-dependent mRNA decapping by generating Dcp1A and Dcp1B double knockout (DKO) U-2 OS cells, and Edc3 KO U-2 OS cells using CRISPR-Cas9 (Fig. 1e, Extended Data Fig. 2). Similar to previous studies, Dcp1A/Dcp1B DKO6,7 and Edc3 KO16 cells both displayed significantly elevated P-body abundance and size under basal conditions compared to wild-type cells (Extended Data Fig. 1a-b, 2d-e). Dcp1A/Dcp1B DKO cells contained P-bodies with a striking accumulation of m7G signal both before and after oxidative stress (Fig. 1b-d), whereas m7G signals in P-bodies from Edc3 KO cells were at similar levels to P-bodies in wild-type cells (Extended Data Fig. 2f). 
Since depletion of Dcp1 paralogs appeared to inhibit P-body-localized mRNA decapping, we sought to evaluate the role of Edc4 within P-bodies, which is a metazoan-specific scaffold protein proposed to stabilize weak interactions between Dcp2 and Dcp1 paralogs3–5,15. Like previous siRNA depletion studies15, Edc4 KO cells lacked P-bodies under basal conditions and formed P-bodies in response to oxidative stress (Extended Data Fig. 3a-d). Under basal conditions, a small subset of Edc4 KO cells were capable of forming P-bodies with trace amounts of Edc4 and contained little to no detectable m7G signals, suggesting that Edc4 depletion does not inhibit P-body-localized mRNA decapping (Extended Data Fig. 3b yellow inset). Consistent with this observation, P-bodies in stressed Edc4 KO cells with no detectable Edc4 exhibited a range of P-body-localized m7G signals like P-bodies from stressed wild-type cells (Extended Data Fig. 3b-c). Together, these data reveal four key insights. First, human Dcp2 requires Dcp1A or Dcp1B, but not Edc3 or Edc4, to perform mRNA decapping in situ within P-bodies. Second, P-body function cannot be inferred by increases in P-body abundance and size. Third, the intensity of m7G signals within Dcp1A/Dcp1B DKO P-bodies rivaled the intensity of stress granule-localized m7G signals (Fig. 1c-d), demonstrating that P-bodies can concentrate m7G-cap signal and sequester capped-mRNA under Dcp2 inhibiting conditions. Lastly, mRNA decapping within P-bodies appeared to be Edc3- and Edc4-independent, raising the possibility that Dcp2 activation within P-bodies might occur through a new mechanism.
Interestingly, m7G signals within P-bodies of the same cell were not uniform (Fig. 1a: top panel insets), suggesting a small fraction of P-bodies under basal conditions sequester capped-mRNA. To assess the functional heterogeneity of P-bodies, we generated basal and stress condition scatterplots, which sorted P-bodies from wild-type and Dcp1A/Dcp1B DKO cells by m7G signal intensity and P-body size (Extended Data Fig. 1e-f). We set the benchmarks for mRNA sequestration under basal and stress conditions by defining the median m7G signal intensity per P-body from basal and stressed Dcp1A/Dcp1B DKO cells, respectively (blue dashed lines in Extended Data Fig. 1e-f). Only 6.9% of P-bodies from wild-type cells were sequestering mRNA under basal conditions (Extended Data Fig. 1e). After oxidative stress, the percentage of mRNA sequestering P-bodies rose to 20.3% (Extended Data Fig. 1f). Together, these data demonstrate that most P-bodies in wild-type cells contained little to no m7G signal, suggesting most P-bodies primarily concentrate uncapped mRNA. P-body-localized m7G signals can be increased in response to stress, or the loss of Dcp1A and Dcp1B. However, m7G-immunofluorescence does not delineate whether uncapped transcripts are decapped within P-bodies or within the dilute phase before being transported into P-bodies. 

Condensate-localized m7G signal immunofluorescence intensity analysis

We developed a Python-based interface to integrate image analysis packages from different platforms, such as Cellpose42 and ImageJ, to automate workflows that include combinations of single-cell segmentation, particle segmentation, image processing (local or global background subtraction, mask dilation, automated thresholding), intensity measurements), and quantification. For condensate-localized m7G signal analyses, we used G3BP1 images to segment cells with Cellpose42. For datasets without G3BP1 immunostaining, we used m7G immunofluorescence (Extended Data Fig. 2-3). P-body or stress granule masks were obtained in ImageJ by applying Otsu's auto-thresholding method to DDX6 or G3BP1 images, respectively.

To quantify m7G signals within P-bodies under basal conditions, we employed an automated local background subtraction to account for the spatial heterogeneity of m7G fluorescence signals throughout the cell. Briefly, the local background of each P-body is by first subtracting the P-body mask from m7G images. The P-body mask is then dilated by 2-pixel units, and a local histogram of m7G fluorescence intensities is generated within each dilated P-body. A local histogram curve for each P-body is generated and smoothed by applying a Gaussian kernel. To determine the “dilute phase m7G background” for each P-body, we used a histogram-based peak detection algorithm to select the dimmest m7G intensity peak by comparing to neighboring peaks. The local dilute phase m7G background is subtracted from the total m7G intensity for each P-body. The same local background subtraction approach was used to measure m7G signal intensity within stress granules using the stress granule mask. During stress conditions, a subset of P-bodies interact closely with stress granules, which complicates the analysis of m7G signals within P-bodies. Therefore, if stress granules are present, then the dilated stress granule mask is used to filter out any P-bodies overlapping with stress granules prior to conducting the local background subtraction workflow above. Lastly, the thresholded m7G intensities of each condensate were normalized by multiplying to the ratio brightness of condensate-localized intensities of DDX6 or G3BP1 divided by the replicate-wide mean intensity for DDX6 or G3BP1, respectively.
